Welcome

The Graduate School of the University of Maine offers this online application option to prospective students in order to make the process as easy and convenient as possible. Using the online application will allow you to begin the process immediately, and eliminate the need to wait to receive an application packet in the mail. Applications submitted electronically receive the same consideration as applications submitted on paper.

To begin, you must Create an Account in the lower box at the right of this page. This account will allow you to save your application in progress, and to return to work on it over several sessions. Your information is secure, and will be kept confidential until you submit it to The Graduate School. Only after you submit your application will it be available for review by our staff and faculty. If you already have an account, your can simply login.

Once you have created an account, navigation links will appear at the top of your screen. Complete Application Instructions will be available in the Supplemental Forms area in the Downloadable Forms section of the online application. The Applications Instructions are one of the best places to begin your application process, as you will find all the details you will need in order to successfully apply to the Graduate School at the University of Maine. Be sure to note that you may be required to submit several additional forms, provide transcripts, recommendations, etc. in addition to the basic information in this application in order to complete your application file.

When you have finished your application, checked it thoroughly, and are ready to submit it, you may either pay your application fee by credit card by calling 581-3219 or you may mail a check or money order to the admissions office. No application will be processed until the application fee is paid. If you are submitting applications for two or more graduate programs, you are required to submit only one $65 application fee.

Please carefully read the instructions that appear throughout the application pages. Although you may have completed all required questions in your application, you will want to check through all items carefully. There may be several additional questions you will want to answer before submitting your application. You can only submit your application one time.

If you have updates or corrections to information you have submitted, please notify the admissions office at once.

To get started on your application, follow the directions to Create an Account to the right. If you already have an account, you can simply login.

Thank you for your interest in the Graduate School at the University of Maine. We look forward to reviewing your application!

 